The Trump administration released a preliminary 2018 budget proposal on Wednesday , and with it comes official details on how the new White House plans to pay for the controversial border wall . According to the 2017 proposal , the wall will cost taxpayers $ 2 billion this year . The White House expects to spend $ 4.1 billion on the wall through 2018 . RELATED : President Trump 's border wall reportedly facing hurdles Trump promised throughout the 2016 campaign that not only will a wall on the Mexican-American border be built , but that Mexico would pay for it . The campaign promise evolved into a rallying cry of Trump 's campaign events , with then presidential candidate Trump often leading attendees in a call-and-response chant .
The Trump administration released a preliminary 2018 budget proposal on Wednesday , and with it comes official details on how the new White House plans to pay for the controversial border wall . According to the 2017 proposal , the wall will cost taxpayers $ 2 billion this year . The White House expects to spend $ 4.1 billion on the wall through 2018 . RELATED : President Trump 's border wall reportedly facing hurdles Trump promised throughout the 2016 campaign that not only will a wall on the Mexican-American border be built , but that Mexico would pay for it . The campaign promise evolved into a rallying cry of Trump 's campaign events , with then presidential candidate Trump often leading attendees in a call-and-response chant . Critics have already called Trump 's new budget proposal the nail in the coffin for his border wall promise . However , the billionaire businessman 's team has been pivoting since taking office regarding how Mexico will pay for the wall . Calls for Mexico to pay for the wall have morphed into Mexico will reimburse America for the wall . Trump says that this pivot is out of urgency to get wall construction underway immediately . `` I do n't feel like waiting a year or year and a half . We 're going to start building . Mexico in some form and there are many different forms , will reimburse us and they will reimburse us for the cost of the wall . That will happen . Whether it 's a tax or whether it 's a payment , '' Trump said during a press conference back in January . SEE ALSO : Senate Intelligence committee speaks out on Trump wiretapping Recently , Republican leaders have grown more outspoken against the idea that Mexico will front the wall bill . `` Uh , no , '' said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell when asked if Mexico will pay for a southern border wall . Sign up for Breaking News by AOL to get the latest breaking news alerts and updates delivered straight to your inbox . `` I 'm in favor of border security . There are probably some places along the border where that is probably not the best way to secure the border , '' McConnell added . A Department of Homeland Security report estimated the cost of the wall would be $ 21.6 billion , far higher than the $ 12 billion estimate coming from Trump 's team . A Pew poll from February 2017 found 62 percent of Americans oppose building the wall and 35 favor the move .
The Trump administration released a preliminary 2018 budget proposal on Wednesday , and with it comes official details on how the new White House plans to pay for the controversial border wall . According to the 2017 proposal , the wall will cost taxpayers $ 2 billion this year . The White House expects to spend $ 4.1 billion on the wall through 2018 . RELATED : President Trump 's border wall reportedly facing hurdles Trump promised throughout the 2016 campaign that not only will a wall on the Mexican-American border be built , but that Mexico would pay for it . The campaign promise evolved into a rallying cry of Trump 's campaign events , with then presidential candidate Trump often leading attendees in a call-and-response chant . Critics have already called Trump 's new budget proposal the nail in the coffin for his border wall promise . However , the billionaire businessman 's team has been pivoting since taking office regarding how Mexico will pay for the wall . Calls for Mexico to pay for the wall have morphed into Mexico will reimburse America for the wall . Trump says that this pivot is out of urgency to get wall construction underway immediately . `` I do n't feel like waiting a year or year and a half . We 're going to start building . Mexico in some form and there are many different forms , will reimburse us and they will reimburse us for the cost of the wall . That will happen . Whether it 's a tax or whether it 's a payment , '' Trump said during a press conference back in January . SEE ALSO : Senate Intelligence committee speaks out on Trump wiretapping Recently , Republican leaders have grown more outspoken against the idea that Mexico will front the wall bill . `` Uh , no , '' said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell when asked if Mexico will pay for a southern border wall . Sign up for Breaking News by AOL to get the latest breaking news alerts and updates delivered straight to your inbox . `` I 'm in favor of border security . There are probably some places along the border where that is probably not the best way to secure the border , '' McConnell added . A Department of Homeland Security report estimated the cost of the wall would be $ 21.6 billion , far higher than the $ 12 billion estimate coming from Trump 's team . A Pew poll from February 2017 found 62 percent of Americans oppose building the wall and 35 favor the move . Maria Flores and her siblings have owned a 16-acre property along a bend in the Rio Grande River for so long none of them can remember when their family acquired it . On January 12 , her daughter , Yvette Salinas , received a legal notice from the Department of Homeland Security with a 21-page `` Declaration of Taking , '' offering Flores $ 2,900 for 1.2 acres of her property along the river . `` The United States of America is acquiring property along its border with Mexico in order to construct a fence and related improvements designed to secure the border , '' the letter said . `` The purpose of this letter is to confer about the amount of just compensation in this case . '' `` It 's scary when you read it , '' Salinas told The Texas Observer . `` You feel like you have to sign . '' Flores has the option to refuse the offer , but the government could then seize it , with compensation , through eminent domain . And the budget proposal submitted by President Donald Trump on Thursday suggests his administration is gearing up for a fight over properties like the Flores family 's . Donald Trump at a news conference near the US-Mexico border outside Laredo , Texas . Reuters/Rick Wilking The 2018 budget request submitted by Trump asks for $ 27.7 billion for the Justice Department , a $ 1.1 billion decrease over the previous year 's amount . A list of bullet points highlighting the budget 's priorities includes the following : `` Supports the addition of 20 attorneys to pursue Federal efforts to obtain the land and holdings necessary to secure the Southwest border and another 20 attorneys and support staff for immigration litigation assistance . '' That foreshadows `` bitter legal fights with landowners from Texas to California over the seizure of private property , '' The New York Times ' Matt Apuzzo notes . Should the federal government come for the Floreses ' property in Texas — which sits near an elbow of the Rio Grande in Hidalgo County , between McAllen and Rio Grande City — it would not be the first time . Los Ebanos Texas Rio Grande Valley map US Mexico border Los Ebanos , near McAllen , Texas , sits on a bend in the Rio Grande River . Christopher Woody/Google Maps They , and others in the area , got a similar notice in 2008 that offered the same $ 2,900 . Their land sits on the river 's floodplain , however , where a US-Mexico treaty prohibits any building . That restriction , plus the passage of time , ultimately spared their land , as the Obama administration deemphasized wall construction . ( The US commission overseeing that treaty dropped its objection to building on the floodplain in 2012 . ) Overall , the Trump administration plans to ask for more than $ 4 billion through 2018 for the wall 's construction . Trump has previously cited $ 12 billion as the wall 's cost , while a Homeland Security estimate put the total as high as $ 21.6 billion . A supplemental spending bill will request $ 1.5 billion , and the fiscal-year 2018 budget will ask for $ 2.6 billion , Mick Mulvaney , the chief of the White House Office on Management and Budget , told reporters this week , saying his office had turned Trump 's `` policies into numbers . '' Mick Mulvaney AP Mulvaney said some of the $ 1.5 billion portion would go toward `` pilot cases '' in areas along the border where Homeland Security may experiment with different types of border walling . The OMB director also further distanced the wall 's funding from Trump 's promises that Mexico would pay for it : `` It 's coming out of the Treasury , '' he said . Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer , the Senate minority leader , said the wall-funding proposal would be a `` poison pill '' that might cause a government shutdown , according to Politico . Politico also obtained audio of Republican Sen. Cory Gardner of Colorado criticizing the idea for the wall in remarks to constituents this week . Legislators from the Texas-Mexico border area have also criticized the idea of a border wall . And residents there , even the ones who support the wall , have misgivings about whether it would work . Robert Cameron , who runs Texas Border Tours in the Rio Grande Valley area , told CNN in February that he supported Trump and the idea to build a wall , even though he disputed the picture of insecurity many had painted about the border area and did n't want to see friends and relatives who were living in the country illegally get deported . But Cameron was skeptical about how effective the wall would be . He recalled President George W. Bush 's border-fence construction efforts in the mid-2000s , when construction created a no-man 's land between the fence and the river , and gaps in the barrier were left to allow property owners access to their land south of the fence . A boy looks as U.S. workers build a section of the U.S.-Mexico border wall . A boy watching US workers build a section of a US-Mexico border wall . Jose Luis Gonzalez/Reuters `` This is definitely not secure , '' Cameron told CNN earlier this year , driving along portions of the fence already built along the border . `` I do n't know h
Nintendo plans to produce at least 16 million Switch consoles in the financial year starting this April , reports The Wall Street Journal , which claims this represents a doubling of the company’s initial plans on the back of strong demand . The only official indication of Switch sales to date is that Nintendo planned to ship 2 million units this month following its launch on March 3rd , though a WSJ source claims the true number may be 2.5 million or more . If the 16 million figure is true , that would put the new console , which is a tablet-style device that is also designed to be used on a TV , well on course to outsell its predecessor , the disappointing Wii U . That system has only managed to sell around 13.5 million units since its launch in late 2012 , versus over 101 million for the original Wii , which sold around 20 million units in a first year that included two holiday seasons . The 3DS portable system , meanwhile , has sold over 65 million units since its launch in early 2012 . Due to its hybrid nature , the Switch could be seen as the ultimate replacement for both the 3DS and the Wii U . Nintendo Switch review : the best portable console Nintendo is unlikely to comment on the matter before April 27 , when it’s due to report earnings for the current fiscal year and issue a forecast for the next . Its forecasts have been known to be on the optimistic side in the past ; three years ago the company was forced to dramatically reverse its fiscal 2013 forecast of 100 billion yen in profit to a loss of 35 billion yen after Wii U sales collapsed over its first year on sale . The company eventually lost 46.4 billion yen that year . That disaster , however , may well have influenced the company into taking a more cautious approach with the Switch .
Nintendo plans to produce at least 16 million Switch consoles in the financial year starting this April , reports The Wall Street Journal , which claims this represents a doubling of the company’s initial plans on the back of strong demand . The only official indication of Switch sales to date is that Nintendo planned to ship 2 million units this month following its launch on March 3rd , though a WSJ source claims the true number may be 2.5 million or more . If the 16 million figure is true , that would put the new console , which is a tablet-style device that is also designed to be used on a TV , well on course to outsell its predecessor , the disappointing Wii U . That system has only managed to sell around 13.5 million units since its launch in late 2012 , versus over 101 million for the original Wii , which sold around 20 million units in a first year that included two holiday seasons . The 3DS portable system , meanwhile , has sold over 65 million units since its launch in early 2012 . Due to its hybrid nature , the Switch could be seen as the ultimate replacement for both the 3DS and the Wii U . Nintendo Switch review : the best portable console Nintendo is unlikely to comment on the matter before April 27 , when it’s due to report earnings for the current fiscal year and issue a forecast for the next . Its forecasts have been known to be on the optimistic side in the past ; three years ago the company was forced to dramatically reverse its fiscal 2013 forecast of 100 billion yen in profit to a loss of 35 billion yen after Wii U sales collapsed over its first year on sale . The company eventually lost 46.4 billion yen that year . That disaster , however , may well have influenced the company into taking a more cautious approach with the Switch . So far , the Nintendo Switch has managed to sell a number of units of the recently-released console . Mixing the best of the Wii and Wii U , the system offers a whole new playing experience for gamers , while also boosting a catalogue of new takes on classic characters . Legend of Zelda : Breath of the Wild alone has been hailed as a stunning achievement , with many contemplating buying the Switch for Breath of the Wild alone . That said , the console has also come under fire . Last week , we reported the impressive sales numbers the console was earning , as well as the various glitches and issues the console has been suffering from so far . It’s too early to tell whether that negative PR will hurt the console’s shelf life , but bad news seems to keep rolling in . The new Dragon Quest game is too big for the console’s native memory , while Nintendo continues to draw criticism for its restrictive YouTube policies concerning content creators . Even in our assessment of the Switch , we found it lacking in a number of key areas . Still , if Nintendo can address the flaws and work on building out a library of solid games , they may yet overcome this hurdle . To help on the game front , it appears the Switch may be getting some of Telltale’s more popular games . The company , known for creating episodic content based around hit shows and movies , has already done well with Game of Thrones and The Walking Dead series . Last year , they introduced a Batman game , which released its season finale a few months back . It was also recently revealed that a Guardians of the Galaxy game is on the horizon . According to various listings from online retailers ( hat tip to CBR ) , it looks as if both the Batman and Guardians games may be coming to the Nintendo Switch later this year . Batman and Guardians of the Galaxy Telltale Games Coming to Nintendo Switch Batman & Guardians Telltale Series Listed for Nintendo Switch The Batman one hasn’t been confirmed , but Guardians looks like it will definitely release on all consoles . Based on the characters from 2014’s hit film and its upcoming sequel , the Guardians Telltale game received a teaser trailer a few months back before also gaining a plot summary and a batch of images from the Telltale game . While not connected to the MCU , the Guardians game follows the exploits of the eponymous crew that film audiences have come to love , as they search for a powerful new artifact and a villain dead-set on keeping it from them . The Batman game , meanwhile , wasn’t as big of a hit for the company as their previous efforts . Still , it’s a fun introduction into the world of Gotham and its various villains ( for more , check out the trailer for the beginning of the Batman series ) . Hopefully , by bringing popular content like the Telltale games to the Switch , it can start to regain some of the ground its lost . After all , if not for the innovative gameplay and fun titles , Nintendo doesn’t stand much of a chance in the modern video game market . We’ll bring you more information on Telltale’s Batman and Guardians of the Galaxy titles coming to Nintendo Switch as it emerges .
Nintendo plans to produce at least 16 million Switch consoles in the financial year starting this April , reports The Wall Street Journal , which claims this represents a doubling of the company’s initial plans on the back of strong demand . The only official indication of Switch sales to date is that Nintendo planned to ship 2 million units this month following its launch on March 3rd , though a WSJ source claims the true number may be 2.5 million or more . If the 16 million figure is true , that would put the new console , which is a tablet-style device that is also designed to be used on a TV , well on course to outsell its predecessor , the disappointing Wii U . That system has only managed to sell around 13.5 million units since its launch in late 2012 , versus over 101 million for the original Wii , which sold around 20 million units in a first year that included two holiday seasons . The 3DS portable system , meanwhile , has sold over 65 million units since its launch in early 2012 . Due to its hybrid nature , the Switch could be seen as the ultimate replacement for both the 3DS and the Wii U . Nintendo Switch review : the best portable console Nintendo is unlikely to comment on the matter before April 27 , when it’s due to report earnings for the current fiscal year and issue a forecast for the next . Its forecasts have been known to be on the optimistic side in the past ; three years ago the company was forced to dramatically reverse its fiscal 2013 forecast of 100 billion yen in profit to a loss of 35 billion yen after Wii U sales collapsed over its first year on sale . The company eventually lost 46.4 billion yen that year . That disaster , however , may well have influenced the company into taking a more cautious approach with the Switch . So far , the Nintendo Switch has managed to sell a number of units of the recently-released console . Mixing the best of the Wii and Wii U , the system offers a whole new playing experience for gamers , while also boosting a catalogue of new takes on classic characters . Legend of Zelda : Breath of the Wild alone has been hailed as a stunning achievement , with many contemplating buying the Switch for Breath of the Wild alone . That said , the console has also come under fire . Last week , we reported the impressive sales numbers the console was earning , as well as the various glitches and issues the console has been suffering from so far . It’s too early to tell whether that negative PR will hurt the console’s shelf life , but bad news seems to keep rolling in . The new Dragon Quest game is too big for the console’s native memory , while Nintendo continues to draw criticism for its restrictive YouTube policies concerning content creators . Even in our assessment of the Switch , we found it lacking in a number of key areas . Still , if Nintendo can address the flaws and work on building out a library of solid games , they may yet overcome this hurdle . To help on the game front , it appears the Switch may be getting some of Telltale’s more popular games . The company , known for creating episodic content based around hit shows and movies , has already done well with Game of Thrones and The Walking Dead series . Last year , they introduced a Batman game , which released its season finale a few months back . It was also recently revealed that a Guardians of the Galaxy game is on the horizon . According to various listings from online retailers ( hat tip to CBR ) , it looks as if both the Batman and Guardians games may be coming to the Nintendo Switch later this year . Batman and Guardians of the Galaxy Telltale Games Coming to Nintendo Switch Batman & Guardians Telltale Series Listed for Nintendo Switch The Batman one hasn’t been confirmed , but Guardians looks like it will definitely release on all consoles . Based on the characters from 2014’s hit film and its upcoming sequel , the Guardians Telltale game received a teaser trailer a few months back before also gaining a plot summary and a batch of images from the Telltale game . While not connected to the MCU , the Guardians game follows the exploits of the eponymous crew that film audiences have come to love , as they search for a powerful new artifact and a villain dead-set on keeping it from them . The Batman game , meanwhile , wasn’t as big of a hit for the company as their previous efforts . Still , it’s a fun introduction into the world of Gotham and its various villains ( for more , check out the trailer for the beginning of the Batman series ) . Hopefully , by bringing popular content like the Telltale games to the Switch , it can start to regain some of the ground its lost . After all , if not for the innovative gameplay and fun titles , Nintendo doesn’t stand much of a chance in the modern video game market . We’ll bring you more information on Telltale’s Batman and Guardians of the Galaxy titles coming to Nintendo Switch as it emerges . If you 're a hard-core Nintendo fan or a lover of Zelda games , you probably preordered the Switch -- which retails for $ 300 , £280 or AU $ 470 -- the moment it was announced . And having played the spectacular Breath of the Wild since day 1 , on your TV or on the Switch 's built-in 6.2-inch screen , you almost certainly feel it was worth every penny . For everyone else , there 's no rush . Zelda is flat-out phenomenal , but otherwise , the Switch feels like an empty vessel , waiting for a deeper catalog of games and access to retro legacy titles to take advantage of what is arguably Nintendo 's most ambitious and risky effort to date . See how the game landscape looks in a few weeks -- or maybe even a few months . However , since it launched on March 3 , Nintendo has instilled some confidence in the Switch 's longevity , thanks to a commitment to independent gaming ( at least for the rest of 2017 ) and a light , but capable online experience and eShop . Nintendo has really swung for the fences here : the Switch is a hybrid console , meaning it can be played on a TV at home or on the go as a handheld . The Joy-Con controllers make the Switch a veritable Transformer : keep them attached to the sides in tablet mode , slide them off and prop up the screen on a table to play one- or two-player games , or dock the Switch in its included charging cradle to play on your big-screen TV . The idea is that you 'll get the same basic experience regardless of how you play . The Nintendo Switch is a much more elegantly designed console from top to bottom , light-years ahead of the plastic goofiness of its spiritual predecessor , the GamePad on 2012 's Wii U . It feels solid in its construction -- expensive , even -- and demonstrates a mature refinement throughout . Even the operating system is clean and fast -- a stark contrast compared to what the Wii U ran on . Just looking at the Switch 's primary focus of being a practical home-and-on-the-go console , the Switch definitely nails it . There is something awesome about taking a huge game like Zelda with you wherever you go . It is perfect for my train commute to work , and it works well on a plane , too . And while battery life is far from marathon levels , I was able to slow down battery drain using a Tronsmart portable charger , thanks to Nintendo adopting the USB-C charging standard on the Switch . And once you 're done with Zelda , you 'll probably turn to ... playing Zelda again ? That 's because the early Switch lineup is pretty anemic otherwise . 1-2 Switch , which effectively serves as a demo for the Joy-Con controllers , is n't included in the box . And do n't expect any other online entertainment on the Switch 's screen for now -- Netflix and other basic streaming services are nowhere
Nintendo plans to produce at least 16 million Switch consoles in the financial year starting this April , reports The Wall Street Journal , which claims this represents a doubling of the company’s initial plans on the back of strong demand . The only official indication of Switch sales to date is that Nintendo planned to ship 2 million units this month following its launch on March 3rd , though a WSJ source claims the true number may be 2.5 million or more . If the 16 million figure is true , that would put the new console , which is a tablet-style device that is also designed to be used on a TV , well on course to outsell its predecessor , the disappointing Wii U . That system has only managed to sell around 13.5 million units since its launch in late 2012 , versus over 101 million for the original Wii , which sold around 20 million units in a first year that included two holiday seasons . The 3DS portable system , meanwhile , has sold over 65 million units since its launch in early 2012 . Due to its hybrid nature , the Switch could be seen as the ultimate replacement for both the 3DS and the Wii U . Nintendo Switch review : the best portable console Nintendo is unlikely to comment on the matter before April 27 , when it’s due to report earnings for the current fiscal year and issue a forecast for the next . Its forecasts have been known to be on the optimistic side in the past ; three years ago the company was forced to dramatically reverse its fiscal 2013 forecast of 100 billion yen in profit to a loss of 35 billion yen after Wii U sales collapsed over its first year on sale . The company eventually lost 46.4 billion yen that year . That disaster , however , may well have influenced the company into taking a more cautious approach with the Switch . So far , the Nintendo Switch has managed to sell a number of units of the recently-released console . Mixing the best of the Wii and Wii U , the system offers a whole new playing experience for gamers , while also boosting a catalogue of new takes on classic characters . Legend of Zelda : Breath of the Wild alone has been hailed as a stunning achievement , with many contemplating buying the Switch for Breath of the Wild alone . That said , the console has also come under fire . Last week , we reported the impressive sales numbers the console was earning , as well as the various glitches and issues the console has been suffering from so far . It’s too early to tell whether that negative PR will hurt the console’s shelf life , but bad news seems to keep rolling in . The new Dragon Quest game is too big for the console’s native memory , while Nintendo continues to draw criticism for its restrictive YouTube policies concerning content creators . Even in our assessment of the Switch , we found it lacking in a number of key areas . Still , if Nintendo can address the flaws and work on building out a library of solid games , they may yet overcome this hurdle . To help on the game front , it appears the Switch may be getting some of Telltale’s more popular games . The company , known for creating episodic content based around hit shows and movies , has already done well with Game of Thrones and The Walking Dead series . Last year , they introduced a Batman game , which released its season finale a few months back . It was also recently revealed that a Guardians of the Galaxy game is on the horizon . According to various listings from online retailers ( hat tip to CBR ) , it looks as if both the Batman and Guardians games may be coming to the Nintendo Switch later this year . Batman and Guardians of the Galaxy Telltale Games Coming to Nintendo Switch Batman & Guardians Telltale Series Listed for Nintendo Switch The Batman one hasn’t been confirmed , but Guardians looks like it will definitely release on all consoles . Based on the characters from 2014’s hit film and its upcoming sequel , the Guardians Telltale game received a teaser trailer a few months back before also gaining a plot summary and a batch of images from the Telltale game . While not connected to the MCU , the Guardians game follows the exploits of the eponymous crew that film audiences have come to love , as they search for a powerful new artifact and a villain dead-set on keeping it from them . The Batman game , meanwhile , wasn’t as big of a hit for the company as their previous efforts . Still , it’s a fun introduction into the world of Gotham and its various villains ( for more , check out the trailer for the beginning of the Batman series ) . Hopefully , by bringing popular content like the Telltale games to the Switch , it can start to regain some of the ground its lost . After all , if not for the innovative gameplay and fun titles , Nintendo doesn’t stand much of a chance in the modern video game market . We’ll bring you more information on Telltale’s Batman and Guardians of the Galaxy titles coming to Nintendo Switch as it emerges . If you 're a hard-core Nintendo fan or a lover of Zelda games , you probably preordered the Switch -- which retails for $ 300 , £280 or AU $ 470 -- the moment it was announced . And having played the spectacular Breath of the Wild since day 1 , on your TV or on the Switch 's built-in 6.2-inch screen , you almost certainly feel it was worth every penny . For everyone else , there 's no rush . Zelda is flat-out phenomenal , but otherwise , the Switch feels like an empty vessel , waiting for a deeper catalog of games and access to retro legacy titles to take advantage of what is arguably Nintendo 's most ambitious and risky effort to date . See how the game landscape looks in a few weeks -- or maybe even a few months . However , since it launched on March 3 , Nintendo has instilled some confidence in the Switch 's longevity , thanks to a commitment to independent gaming ( at least for the rest of 2017 ) and a light , but capable online experience and eShop . Nintendo has really swung for the fences here : the Switch is a hybrid console , meaning it can be played on a TV at home or on the go as a handheld . The Joy-Con controllers make the Switch a veritable Transformer : keep them attached to the sides in tablet mode , slide them off and prop up the screen on a table to play one- or two-player games , or dock the Switch in its included charging cradle to play on your big-screen TV . The idea is that you 'll get the same basic experience regardless of how you play . The Nintendo Switch is a much more elegantly designed console from top to bottom , light-years ahead of the plastic goofiness of its spiritual predecessor , the GamePad on 2012 's Wii U . It feels solid in its construction -- expensive , even -- and demonstrates a mature refinement throughout . Even the operating system is clean and fast -- a stark contrast compared to what the Wii U ran on . Just looking at the Switch 's primary focus of being a practical home-and-on-the-go console , the Switch definitely nails it . There is something awesome about taking a huge game like Zelda with you wherever you go . It is perfect for my train commute to work , and it works well on a plane , too . And while battery life is far from marathon levels , I was able to slow down battery drain using a Tronsmart portable charger , thanks to Nintendo adopting the USB-C charging standard on the Switch . And once you 're done with Zelda , you 'll probably turn to ... playing Zelda again ? That 's because the early Switch lineup is pretty anemic otherwise . 1-2 Switch , which effectively serves as a demo for the Joy-Con controllers , is n't included in the box . And do n't expect any other online entertainment on the Switch 's screen for now -- Netflix and other basic streaming services are nowhere It’s been a week or so since the Nintendo Switch came out , so we thought we’d ask our readers how they were getting on with the venerable Japanese game company’s hybrid console . Nintendo Switch review : a brave and fascinating new console At £280 the Switch is a gamble , but Nintendo has again done its idiosyncratic best to challenge the way we think about games hardware Reaction was largely positive , save for a few niggles about battery life , launch title availability and JoyCon responsiveness . Below , we share a few of our readers’ takes . ‘Nintendo have been clear about the Switch from the start’ The Wii U failed because of a lack of clarity and communication from Nintendo about what it was actually meant to do . They have been clear about the Switch from the start – it’s a home console you can pick up and play on the go . And it just works ! The jump from TV to handheld screen ( and vice versa ) is almost instantaneous . I got Zelda at launch and it’s been an absolute delight to play . If Nintendo can continue to foster well designed , unique ‘Nindie’ games and tempt a few big third party companies back they will have a smash hit . Of course , just their own library of high quality games will keep diehard fans happy . The only gripe I have with the system is the lack of a bundled game to showcase the hardware . 1-2-Switch is not worth the price to buy separately and won’t tempt many people to give the system a chance . A still image from the Nintendo Switch Super Bowl 51 commercial . Facebook Twitter Pinterest A still image from the Nintendo Switch Super Bowl 51 commercial . Photograph : AP ‘The Switch was created by elves riding unicorns’ In the lead up to the Switch’s release I managed to transition from “it’s too expensive / there’s no games / I don’t want it anyway” to “I need it in my life immediately” within the space of a week . Nothing notable took place to cause this change of heart , but that’s Nintendo’s charm – everything they do has a magic to it . Playstations are devised in boardrooms , while the Switch was created by elves riding unicorns in some far off magical kingdom . That’s what I told my wife anyway . It’s a lovely bit of kit , it feels well made and the user interface is intuitive . It’s the best possible way to play the new Zelda game , which no amount of hyperbole does justice . The only problem is what I’m going to do when I’ve finished Breath of the Wild as there really isn’t anything else coming up except a re-release of The Best Mario Kart Game Of All Time . I’m trying not to think that far ahead . Edward King , 36 , Newcastle-Upon-Tyne ‘Breath of the Wild is Nintendo’s saviour’ While the console itself seems neat enough , with seamless transitions from handheld to docked , it is Breath of the Wild that’s surely going to be Nintendo’s saviour . It is the perfect lesson in game design done right . Link retrains as a lumberjack . Facebook Twitter Pinterest Link retrains as a lumberjack . Photograph : Nintendo They have checked every box with loving care , and created the most well rounded , well thought out gaming experience I’ve played in years . Perhaps ever . I’m yet to experience multiplayer games on the console – and it’ll be a while , given how much I shelled out for the console plus BotW – but the vast landscape yet to be discovered in Zelda will keep me going for a good long time yet . Nick , Masters Student , 30 , Edinburgh ‘I find it more satisfying to play as a handheld I’m absolutely in love with Zelda Breath of Wild . The game has matched my high expectations ; it’s totally immersive and a fantastically designed open world that even if it didn’t create waves of nostalgic feelings makes paying the admittedly steep retail price totally worthwhile . From a technical perspective I’ve been impressed with what it can do as a handheld device and I haven’t had any of the technical issues others have had . I find it much more satisfying to play it in handheld mode . I’m not even a Nintendo fan boy , I usually stick to my PS4 and games like Destiny and Witcher 3 but I’ve been really impressed so far . My big worry is that as I’m not really in to Mario Kart and other family games , in a few months it’ll be collecting dust . But hey : Skyrim is coming . James , 30 , London ‘My stay-at-home PS4 seems antiquated’ Although it’s noticeably less powerful than the PS4 , the art style used in the new Zelda game is such that it looks amazing , whether playing in TV or handheld mode , and I’m sure Nintendo will get every last bit of juice out of it with future releases . Switching between the two modes is seamless , and my stay-at-home PS4 seems antiquated when compared with the ‘play anywhere’ capabilities of the Switch .
Nintendo plans to produce at least 16 million Switch consoles in the financial year starting this April , reports The Wall Street Journal , which claims this represents a doubling of the company’s initial plans on the back of strong demand . The only official indication of Switch sales to date is that Nintendo planned to ship 2 million units this month following its launch on March 3rd , though a WSJ source claims the true number may be 2.5 million or more . If the 16 million figure is true , that would put the new console , which is a tablet-style device that is also designed to be used on a TV , well on course to outsell its predecessor , the disappointing Wii U . That system has only managed to sell around 13.5 million units since its launch in late 2012 , versus over 101 million for the original Wii , which sold around 20 million units in a first year that included two holiday seasons . The 3DS portable system , meanwhile , has sold over 65 million units since its launch in early 2012 . Due to its hybrid nature , the Switch could be seen as the ultimate replacement for both the 3DS and the Wii U . Nintendo Switch review : the best portable console Nintendo is unlikely to comment on the matter before April 27 , when it’s due to report earnings for the current fiscal year and issue a forecast for the next . Its forecasts have been known to be on the optimistic side in the past ; three years ago the company was forced to dramatically reverse its fiscal 2013 forecast of 100 billion yen in profit to a loss of 35 billion yen after Wii U sales collapsed over its first year on sale . The company eventually lost 46.4 billion yen that year . That disaster , however , may well have influenced the company into taking a more cautious approach with the Switch . So far , the Nintendo Switch has managed to sell a number of units of the recently-released console . Mixing the best of the Wii and Wii U , the system offers a whole new playing experience for gamers , while also boosting a catalogue of new takes on classic characters . Legend of Zelda : Breath of the Wild alone has been hailed as a stunning achievement , with many contemplating buying the Switch for Breath of the Wild alone . That said , the console has also come under fire . Last week , we reported the impressive sales numbers the console was earning , as well as the various glitches and issues the console has been suffering from so far . It’s too early to tell whether that negative PR will hurt the console’s shelf life , but bad news seems to keep rolling in . The new Dragon Quest game is too big for the console’s native memory , while Nintendo continues to draw criticism for its restrictive YouTube policies concerning content creators . Even in our assessment of the Switch , we found it lacking in a number of key areas . Still , if Nintendo can address the flaws and work on building out a library of solid games , they may yet overcome this hurdle . To help on the game front , it appears the Switch may be getting some of Telltale’s more popular games . The company , known for creating episodic content based around hit shows and movies , has already done well with Game of Thrones and The Walking Dead series . Last year , they introduced a Batman game , which released its season finale a few months back . It was also recently revealed that a Guardians of the Galaxy game is on the horizon . According to various listings from online retailers ( hat tip to CBR ) , it looks as if both the Batman and Guardians games may be coming to the Nintendo Switch later this year . Batman and Guardians of the Galaxy Telltale Games Coming to Nintendo Switch Batman & Guardians Telltale Series Listed for Nintendo Switch The Batman one hasn’t been confirmed , but Guardians looks like it will definitely release on all consoles . Based on the characters from 2014’s hit film and its upcoming sequel , the Guardians Telltale game received a teaser trailer a few months back before also gaining a plot summary and a batch of images from the Telltale game . While not connected to the MCU , the Guardians game follows the exploits of the eponymous crew that film audiences have come to love , as they search for a powerful new artifact and a villain dead-set on keeping it from them . The Batman game , meanwhile , wasn’t as big of a hit for the company as their previous efforts . Still , it’s a fun introduction into the world of Gotham and its various villains ( for more , check out the trailer for the beginning of the Batman series ) . Hopefully , by bringing popular content like the Telltale games to the Switch , it can start to regain some of the ground its lost . After all , if not for the innovative gameplay and fun titles , Nintendo doesn’t stand much of a chance in the modern video game market . We’ll bring you more information on Telltale’s Batman and Guardians of the Galaxy titles coming to Nintendo Switch as it emerges . If you 're a hard-core Nintendo fan or a lover of Zelda games , you probably preordered the Switch -- which retails for $ 300 , £280 or AU $ 470 -- the moment it was announced . And having played the spectacular Breath of the Wild since day 1 , on your TV or on the Switch 's built-in 6.2-inch screen , you almost certainly feel it was worth every penny . For everyone else , there 's no rush . Zelda is flat-out phenomenal , but otherwise , the Switch feels like an empty vessel , waiting for a deeper catalog of games and access to retro legacy titles to take advantage of what is arguably Nintendo 's most ambitious and risky effort to date . See how the game landscape looks in a few weeks -- or maybe even a few months . However , since it launched on March 3 , Nintendo has instilled some confidence in the Switch 's longevity , thanks to a commitment to independent gaming ( at least for the rest of 2017 ) and a light , but capable online experience and eShop . Nintendo has really swung for the fences here : the Switch is a hybrid console , meaning it can be played on a TV at home or on the go as a handheld . The Joy-Con controllers make the Switch a veritable Transformer : keep them attached to the sides in tablet mode , slide them off and prop up the screen on a table to play one- or two-player games , or dock the Switch in its included charging cradle to play on your big-screen TV . The idea is that you 'll get the same basic experience regardless of how you play . The Nintendo Switch is a much more elegantly designed console from top to bottom , light-years ahead of the plastic goofiness of its spiritual predecessor , the GamePad on 2012 's Wii U . It feels solid in its construction -- expensive , even -- and demonstrates a mature refinement throughout . Even the operating system is clean and fast -- a stark contrast compared to what the Wii U ran on . Just looking at the Switch 's primary focus of being a practical home-and-on-the-go console , the Switch definitely nails it . There is something awesome about taking a huge game like Zelda with you wherever you go . It is perfect for my train commute to work , and it works well on a plane , too . And while battery life is far from marathon levels , I was able to slow down battery drain using a Tronsmart portable charger , thanks to Nintendo adopting the USB-C charging standard on the Switch . And once you 're done with Zelda , you 'll probably turn to ... playing Zelda again ? That 's because the early Switch lineup is pretty anemic otherwise . 1-2 Switch , which effectively serves as a demo for the Joy-Con controllers , is n't included in the box . And do n't expect any other online entertainment on the Switch 's screen for now -- Netflix and other basic streaming services are nowhere It’s been a week or so since the Nintendo Switch came out , so we thought we’d ask our readers how they were getting on with the venerable Japanese game company’s hybrid console . Nintendo Switch review : a brave and fascinating new console At £280 the Switch is a gamble , but Nintendo has again done its idiosyncratic best to challenge the way we think about games hardware Reaction was largely positive , save for a few niggles about battery life , launch title availability and JoyCon responsiveness . Below , we share a few of our readers’ takes . ‘Nintendo have been clear about the Switch from the start’ The Wii U failed because of a lack of clarity and communication from Nintendo about what it was actually meant to do . They have been clear about the Switch from the start – it’s a home console you can pick up and play on the go . And it just works ! The jump from TV to handheld screen ( and vice versa ) is almost instantaneous . I got Zelda at launch and it’s been an absolute delight to play . If Nintendo can continue to foster well designed , unique ‘Nindie’ games and tempt a few big third party companies back they will have a smash hit . Of course , just their own library of high quality games will keep diehard fans happy . The only gripe I have with the system is the lack of a bundled game to showcase the hardware . 1-2-Switch is not worth the price to buy separately and won’t tempt many people to give the system a chance . A still image from the Nintendo Switch Super Bowl 51 commercial . Facebook Twitter Pinterest A still image from the Nintendo Switch Super Bowl 51 commercial . Photograph : AP ‘The Switch was created by elves riding unicorns’ In the lead up to the Switch’s release I managed to transition from “it’s too expensive / there’s no games / I don’t want it anyway” to “I need it in my life immediately” within the space of a week . Nothing notable took place to cause this change of heart , but that’s Nintendo’s charm – everything they do has a magic to it . Playstations are devised in boardrooms , while the Switch was created by elves riding unicorns in some far off magical kingdom . That’s what I told my wife anyway . It’s a lovely bit of kit , it feels well made and the user interface is intuitive . It’s the best possible way to play the new Zelda game , which no amount of hyperbole does justice . The only problem is what I’m going to do when I’ve finished Breath of the Wild as there really isn’t anything else coming up except a re-release of The Best Mario Kart Game Of All Time . I’m trying not to think that far ahead . Edward King , 36 , Newcastle-Upon-Tyne ‘Breath of the Wild is Nintendo’s saviour’ While the console itself seems neat enough , with seamless transitions from handheld to docked , it is Breath of the Wild that’s surely going to be Nintendo’s saviour . It is the perfect lesson in game design done right . Link retrains as a lumberjack . Facebook Twitter Pinterest Link retrains as a lumberjack . Photograph : Nintendo They have checked every box with loving care , and created the most well rounded , well thought out gaming experience I’ve played in years . Perhaps ever . I’m yet to experience multiplayer games on the console – and it’ll be a while , given how much I shelled out for the console plus BotW – but the vast landscape yet to be discovered in Zelda will keep me going for a good long time yet . Nick , Masters Student , 30 , Edinburgh ‘I find it more satisfying to play as a handheld I’m absolutely in love with Zelda Breath of Wild . The game has matched my high expectations ; it’s totally immersive and a fantastically designed open world that even if it didn’t create waves of nostalgic feelings makes paying the admittedly steep retail price totally worthwhile . From a technical perspective I’ve been impressed with what it can do as a handheld device and I haven’t had any of the technical issues others have had . I find it much more satisfying to play it in handheld mode . I’m not even a Nintendo fan boy , I usually stick to my PS4 and games like Destiny and Witcher 3 but I’ve been really impressed so far . My big worry is that as I’m not really in to Mario Kart and other family games , in a few months it’ll be collecting dust . But hey : Skyrim is coming . James , 30 , London ‘My stay-at-home PS4 seems antiquated’ Although it’s noticeably less powerful than the PS4 , the art style used in the new Zelda game is such that it looks amazing , whether playing in TV or handheld mode , and I’m sure Nintendo will get every last bit of juice out of it with future releases . Switching between the two modes is seamless , and my stay-at-home PS4 seems antiquated when compared with the ‘play anywhere’ capabilities of the Switch . UPDATE : Nintendo Switch received another big games boost , as Binding of Isaac Afterbirth+ , World of Goo , Human Resource Machine and Little Inferno all make their Nintendo Switch debut . The titles can now be downloaded from the Nintendo eShop in North America , although UK players will have to wait a little longer . ORIGINAL : PS4 , Xbox One and Nintendo Switch owners could be treated to a major games boost in the not too distant future . Starbreeze has picked up the publishing rights to System Shock 3 , which is currently down for a PC release . And in a brand new blog post on the System Shock 3 website , Starbreeze said that it 's invested $ 12 million to bring the game to PC and `` other platforms '' . It 's not clear which platforms the publisher is referring to , but Xbox One and PS4 ports are most likely . A Nintendo Switch version is harder to imagine , although Starbreeze is listed as one of the publishers working with the console . System Shock 3 is being directed by Warren Spector , whose previous releases include the original System Shock and System Shock 2 , as well as Thief : The Dark Project and Deus Ex . It 's currently without a release date . PS4 Exclusive Games in 2017 and Beyond PS4 fans are in for a treat in 2017 , with exclusive games that include The Last of Us 2 , Gran Turismo Sport , Horizon Zero Dawn and more . `` We’re greatly looking forward to bringing System Shock 3 to players world wide in our collaboration with Otherside Entertainment and Warren Spector’s team . `` I’ll be first in line to play . '' The views were echoed by OtherSide CEO Paul Neurath , who said : `` We are thrilled to be partnering with Starbreeze for System Shock 3 . `` They truly get games and gamers , and have been able to translate that understanding into a robust publishing business , and build thriving gaming communities around their franchises . '' PlayStation announce new games for March 2017 on PS4 Play Video Lots of new releases are being lined up for the Nintendo Switch , including a potential Overwatch port . Overwatch developer Blizzard has n't ruled out the possibility of the game appearing on Nintendo Switch , with director Jeff Kaplan saying that the company is open minded about new platforms . `` I 'm loving the Switch ! '' Kaplan told users on Reddit . `` My second favourite gaming platform of all time is the 3DS . `` Getting OW on the Switch is very challenging for us . But we 're always open minded about exploring possible platforms . '' While it 's by no means confirmation , the fact that Blizzard is even considering an Overwatch port is good news for the Nintendo Switch .
